Kya Johnson
IT 412
Final Project 
Alicia Peltier
2/17/2025



1.	Describe the information technology structure of the organization in the given scenario.
ABC Healthcare uses an internal computer network to connect workstations, a data server, a printer/copier, and wireless devices. There is one switch in the center connecting these devices together and a router connecting them to the internet. The data server is their primary data storage system in charge of holding client records, billing data, and company financials. Employees can access this network with both wired workstations and through wireless access. Wireless access allows staff and guests to bring their own devices and connect to the internet. The physical layout shows a cubicle type office layout showing departments for health records, billing, HR, and Appointment scheduling staff. They have also installed a video monitoring system throughout the office. Overall, they have a basic setup to support their on-site server and workforce. 
2.	Identify specific cyberlaws and ethics regulations that pertain to the organization and its computing operations in the scenario.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or HIPAA is the first to come to mind when looking at the company. This law regulates how healthcare collects, stores, accesses, and protects health information. HIPAA’s privacy rule requires patient information be kept confidential and be only able to be accessed by authorized individuals. While the Security rule requires administrative, technical, and physical safeguards are in place. Since ABC Healthcare stores patient records, billing data, and PII on its healthcare data server, its operations fall directly under HIPAA requirements. Alongside HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act or HITECH requires electronic notifications to be put in place in case of a breach. If ABC Healthcare were to experience a data breach involving patient information, it would be legally required to notify affected individuals and authorities. (GRAMA Pg. 182)
3.	Organizational ethics violations
Personal unethical behaviors involve actions taken by an individual person that misuse the organization’s resources. This is shown in ABC healthcare as employees are using their work computer for personal web browsing and checking personal emails. This actions increases the risk of malware being introduced into the network by possibly exposing it to unsafe websites. The other possible issue is employees are using wireless access to bring in their personal devices to use the network. The access point is intended for staff and clients to use wireless devices but as there are no policies in place anyone could connect a possibly infected device onto the network increasing risk of a breach. 
Professional unethical behaviors involve actions made by the organization that violate ethical responsibilities. The first issue would be the use of default usernames and passwords. Keeping default credentials allows for attackers to easily guess and quickly gain access to the server and all personal data. The next issue would be that both staff and guests are able to use the same wireless access point. By not providing proper segmentation for guests and employees, the organization allows for the possibility for guests to bring malware straight into their network. Additionally, the organization has installed a video monitoring system but has failed to notify their employee that they will be monitored. Ethically, employees have an expectation of being informed if they are being monitored as this data could be collected and stored. Lastly, the disposal of unused copies from the copier is simply placed next to the copier to be recycled. Documents containing sensitive information should be discarded properly and not left unattended to any unathorized personal that could misuse such information. 
4.	 Cyberlaw noncompliance
ABC Healthcare shows multiple instances of cyberlaw noncompliance due to inadequate safeguards, lack of policies, and improper handling of data. Because this organization handles important healthcare data containing patient records, it must comply with federal regulations that state how specific data must be protected and handled. The scenario stated fails to meet some of those regulations. The first instance of noncompliance involves the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. HIPAA establishes standards for the protection of healthcare and what safeguards should be put in place. ABC healthcare stores their patient health records, billing information, and PII on a healthcare data server within the network. However, they rely on default usernames and passwords across all programs. This violates HIPAAs security rule that requires organizations to have access controls and strong authentication methods to limit who has access to such data. (GRAMA Pg. 182)
In addition to HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health act which also has certain requirements for the protection of health records comes into effect here. HITECH expects a certain level of security methods, risk management, and employee training to be put in place. However, ABC Healthcare currently does not have policies of guidelines defining how employees should be using company computers and the network. Employees are using their computers for personal web browsing and to access their personal emails as well as some connect their personal devices to the internal network. These actions show the lack of training and awareness the employees are receiving. Each time an employee follows these practices they are increasing the risk of malicious attacks, phishing, and social engineering which exposes the sensitive data. (GRAMA Pg. 183)
ABCs Healthcare also affects state data privacy laws which cover how PII is protected and how sensitive documentation should be disposed of. The Pennsylvania Breach of Personal Information Notification Act for example requires organization to implement security measures to protect data and notify individuals in the case of a breach. This law is breached by the lack of proper disposal of documents. Documents that are not needed after printed are left unattended next to the shared printer. These documents can contain PII which allows for any unathorized individual to be able to view data they should not see. Additionally, employees and guests are able to access the network through the same wireless access point and allows them to connect their own personal devices. This practice increases the risk that an unathorized person will be able to view data through the internal network. (Pennsylvania 2022)
Cyberlaw noncompliance has a direct impact on ABC Healthcare’s IT and computing departments. Weak policies and guidelines, lack of awareness, unsecured wireless access points, and lack of device management increase the attack surface, making it much more difficult to protect the network. The current practices this company follows increase the likelihood of breaches and operational disruptions which will fall to the IT department to handle. 
5.	Acceptable use-of-technology
Acceptable use-of-technology policies guide how individuals use organizational assets. These policies define acceptable and unacceptable actions, responsibilities of each individual, and define rules that follow compliance. The SANS institute Acceptable Use Policy enforces security awareness and how assets are protected. It states how organizational resources should only be used for business use and should not be accessed by unathorized individuals and unathorized devices. It also expects user accountability by requiring strong credentials and a certain level of awareness to be able to recognize and report security threats. (SANS 2014)
The Information Systems Security Association Acceptable Use Policy focuses on the responsible handling of data. It covers topics such as protection of confidential information and proper use of passwords. It also addresses acceptable internet and email use by stating that users should avoid activities that increase risk such as downloading files from untrusted sources. ISSA emphasizes compliance with applicable laws and regulations, making it particularly relevant for organizations that manage sensitive or regulated data such as healthcare records. (ISSA)
The Pennsylvania College of Technology IT Acceptable Use Policy defines acceptable and unacceptable behaviors, including rules on personal use, downloading software, and use of email and internet resources. This policy also explicitly informs users that monitoring may occur and requires acknowledgment of policy terms. Its transparency and clarity make it effective for setting expectations. (Pennsylvania 2022)
The AT&T Acceptable Use Policy protects network integrity and works on preventing misuse that may lead to operational disruptions. It outlines prohibited activities such as attempting to gain unauthorized access, distributing malware, or using the network for illegal purposes. The policy grants AT&T the authority to suspend or terminate access if violations occur. While it is less focused on employee behavior in a workplace setting, it provides guidance on accountability and network protection. (AT&T 2008)
Aspects of all these policies would be beneficial to ABCs policy needs. From the SANS policy, they could adopt restrictions on the use of personal devices by requiring devices to be approved before being able to connect. This would help with the scenario in which employees are bringing their personal computers and connecting them to the internal network without guidance. From the ISSA policy and the Pennsylvania policy, they could adopt how policy is defined on personal web browsing and email access. This would limit the risk of employees accessing unsafe browsers or clicking on phishing emails from their own emails. From the AT&T policy they can add penalties from violating any policy created ensuring accountability and showing employees that not following policies will lead to actual consequences. 
6.	Code of ethics
The Kansas State University Employee Code of Ethics covers the ethical responsibilities for employees handling university data and systems. The main purpose is to protect confidential information, prevent unathorized access, and promote integrity, responsibility, and trust. To follow this code employees must keep their credentials private, only access data needed for their job, follow copyright laws, and report any ethical violations they see. (K-State)
The Microsoft Trust Code covers how employees must act legally and ethically as they represent the company. The main purpose of this code is to maintain trust with customers and partners, ensure compliance with laws, and promote respect, integrity, and accountability. To follow this code employees must act with honesty, protect important data, avoid corruption, prevent conflicts of interest, and treat customers with respect. It also stresses transparency and reporting misconduct without fear of retaliation, which helps strengthen organizational accountability. (Microsoft)
The AT&T Code of Ethics covers how employees and third party partners should behave ethically when handling business operations. The main purpose of this code is to promote ethical decision-making, protect customer privacy and company ethics, and ensure compliance. To follow this code employees and third-parties must act with integrity, follow company policies, protect important data, avoid corruption, and report any violations they see. This code places strong emphasis on protecting confidential customer information and maintaining fair and lawful business practices.
	All three of these codes emphasize protecting customer data and company assets safe, compliance with laws and regulations, and following ethical decision making. as well as promoting accountability and require employees to report misconduct. The difference is the scope in which these codes cover. Kansas specifically focuses on employees and how they should handle data. Microsoft focuses on employees worldwide maintaining trust with customers and employees while staying compliant with laws. While AT&T focuses on employees and partners and how they handle business operation while working with the company. (AT&T)
	ABC Healthcare currently lacks code of ethics to govern employee and partner conduct. Given that this company handles important healthcare data it is important to adopt a code for themselves. For example, some elements of Kansas University code of ethics could be implemented such as limiting access to information to authorized people. ABC Healthcare acts on a flat network so having role-based access control would enforce that employees should not be viewing information that is not within their role. From Microsoft’s trust code they could adopt the principle of avoiding conflicts of interest which would ensure employees avoid situations that would compromise patient trust. From AT&T’s code of ethics they could implement acting with integrity, ensuring that they are being ethical with patients’ information. Such as recognizing that leaving documents unattended next to the printer would be unethical and should refrain from doing so. Additionally, requiring third-party vendors or contractors to follow the same ethical expectations would strengthen overall data protection. Implementing a formal code of ethics would help shift the organization to a trust-based ethical culture that supports secure and responsible computing practices.

References:
SANS; June 2014; SANS Acceptable Use Policy; Wayback Machine
ISSA; ISSA Acceptable Use Policy; ISSA Acceptable Use Policy - Information Systems Security Association
Pennsylvania College of Technology Policy Statement; November 2022; Information Technology Resources Acceptable Use Policy; https://www.pct.edu/media/3407/download
AT&T; Acceptable Use Policy; October 15, 2008; Terms of Service - Legal Policy Center - AT&T;
Grama, Joanna Lyn; Spinello, Richard; Southern New Hampshire University IT412 Custom VitalBook
Kansas State University; Division of Information Technology; Information Technology Code of Ethics; K-State Information Technology Code of Ethics
Microsoft; Microsoft’s Standard of Business Conduct Trust Code; English_Trust_Code_(SBC)_Oct2025.pdf
AT&T; Code of Business Conduct; AT&T Code of Business Conduct


